

[METADATA] Motion: This House objects to the giving of international military aid. OR This House believes that military aid exacerbates conflict. | Side: Government

International military aid is merely throwing fuel into a raging fire. On proposition, we believe that this aid becomes the battleground of international tensions and worsens the conflicts that it claims to resolve. First, I'll model the debate and talk about why this aid leads to more war. Secondly, I'll discuss why military aid leads to harmful leverage that prolongs conflict. Military aid is monetarily assisting the government of a country in its military efforts, either maintaining control or in self-defense. Self-defense can look like bloody wars or cracking down on protesters. This debate is not about peacekeeping, joint training ventures, or intelligence sharing mechanisms. We oppose the unaccountable and inflammatory method of international military aid. We prefer a world where no states give international military aid. States often prioritize consolidating their strategic alliances over good or humane military objectives. The donors of aid are insulated from the conflict and often prioritize strategic locations. For example, the U.S. funds Israel because it's the one democratic country in a sea of Middle Eastern countries. This aid is often effectively unconditional because that alliance matters more than the result of the conflict. Economic interests also play a role; oil interests in Saudi Arabia or Turkish control over the Black Sea often mean that aid is given to countries that are strategically important rather than those that are vulnerable. This aid escalates conflict for several reasons. First, there is a lack of accountability. The recipients of this aid are often unstable and lack democratic checks. This means that the government that uses this aid is unaccountable and often uses it poorly. Second, more sophisticated weaponry is provided. Third, funding is two-sided, leading to international rivalries manifesting in proxy conflicts. Finally, there is no incentive to negotiate. Both sides need to be vulnerable to come to the table. When both sides are bankrolled by different wealthy countries, there is no cost to the conflict. International military aid merely adds fuel to the fire and causes more death and suffering. Military aid can be abused and is counterproductive to its aims.