

[METADATA] Motion: This House prefers a world in which success and failure are seen as a consequence of random factors rather than personal actions. OR This House believes that success should not be attributed solely to individual effort. | Side: Government

Panel, our opponents, like us, have spent many hours training this past year, and any difference in the work we have put in becomes marginal. However, only one team is crowned champion at the end of the day. We prefer a world where teams are not considered less hardworking but rather that the loss was the necessary result of the random selection of motions. Success is an objective metric determined not by oneself but by society. You can only be considered successful insofar as the majority of the world thinks you are. Success must be scarce and exclusive; if everyone is successful, no one is successful. Success is desirable insofar as society wants to achieve it and is currently unable to. Our stance today is threefold. First, we value self-determined individual progress. Progress is self-determined; you compare yourself to yourself yesterday. Progress does not guarantee success. Second, success necessitates progression and largely random factors. Third, this understanding addresses existing inequalities and allows for better self-actualization and happiness. Success is arbitrary due to factors like the birth lottery, which makes a huge difference based on household circumstances. Success is easier when you come from a wealthier family. Life's randomness, such as business trends or economic recessions, affects success. The opposition aggravates this randomness by crediting personal action more as a factor of success, muting criticism of bad luck as an explanation for failure. Those benefiting from randomness have no incentive to acknowledge it. This impacts social discussion on birth lottery and social justice. Proposition solves this issue by recognizing arbitrary factors in success, leading to greater willingness to address inequality. Most people are not beneficiaries of birth lotteries, so they will vote against things reinforcing arbitrariness. This creates a better political climate to discuss issues like white privilege. In a world where we recognize that arbitrary factors play a significant role in success, people are more willing to accept policies like affirmative action. On individual happiness, the majority of people will lead mediocre lives because success is scarce. The opposition forces feelings of insufficiency on people, telling them they are not doing enough. This narrative is harmful, especially for those already facing difficulties. Feeling proud of one's progress is crucial for self-actualization. The opposition creates an environment of shame, believing success is a result of personal ability. This leads to corporate exploitation, where individuals feel compelled to work excessively, impacting their quality of life. On our side, we alleviate self-shame and allow people to be content with their progress. We make people happier by enabling them to achieve happiness at their current status in life.