

[METADATA] Motion: This House believes that the global reliance on the US dollar is detrimental to the global economy. OR This House would support the diversification of international currencies away from the US dollar. | Side: Government

The world's reliance on the dollar is unquestionably a bad thing. It has exposed the global economy to systemic risk and has made it hard for countries to employ policies needed for crisis response. The dollar currently manifests its global reliance in three ways: it is the main currency of international reserve, the main currency of lending, and many countries have either accepted it as their currency directly or peg their currency to the dollar. This is not a consensual activity; for many poorer nations, this was a requirement for loans from institutions like the IMF. This is a dramatic decline in autonomy for currency in the global economy. We believe there are a variety of plausible options for individual nations and central banks to determine the value of their own currency. They may peg it to a basket of currencies or to a commodity vital to their industry. The decline of reliance on the dollar is likely because countries want to opt out of the current global tightening cycle. This introduces massive amounts of risk to their own country and price stability is in shambles for most countries around the world. The current global tightening cycle is something countries want to avoid. We think these other options will be expanded to allow countries to have more control over their economies. The first argument is systemic risk. The US has one of the most deregulated financial sectors in the world, exposing it to significant lobbying and financial shocks. Countries that depend on the dollar are exposed to this risk. When the US experiences harm, other countries experience harm due to the contagion effect of the dollar. The counterfactual is that if countries have alternatives, they can hedge against currency risk. The second argument is that the US has a drastically different economic strategy, making it harder for other countries to survive and thrive. The reliance on the dollar means that countries are hamstrung in their ability to respond to economic crises. The poorest countries are least likely to provide for foreign direct investment, which means they lose access to essential services. The global reliance on the dollar has made things worse for everyone, and that's why we support its change.