

[METADATA] Motion: This House objects to the giving of international military aid. OR This House believes that military aid exacerbates conflict. | Side: Opposition

The nature of aid is that it goes to those with no alternatives. We are proud to oppose two arguments: why we protect the most vulnerable actors and why we are better than the comparative. The proposition has given us no stance or comparative about what they want to do in this debate. What do they allow Assad to use chemical warfare with no impunity? What does their intervention look like? They need to tell us if they are going to pull out entirely or rely entirely on peacekeeping. They have not reached a burden in this debate because while they can prove a multiplicity of incentives, they need to tell us why military aid is uniquely harmful. The comparative in this debate is about vulnerable actors who don't have the resources to have military assistance. When that aid pulls out, these actors look like post-conflict societies ravaged by insurgents or oppressed minorities like the Kurds. We protect these actors because we have a strategic incentive to ensure stability. When you want to secure allies, you have an incentive to make sure those allies are not rogue nations. The political capital in the status quo means that if you cannot send them aid, you usually send them nothing at all. Aid has the flexibility of cash, allowing countries to invest in different things based on their context. Aid upholds the sovereignty of the places that these countries are going to. If America were to pull out all aid to Israel, they would not survive in the most hostile settings. The impact is that these countries need military arms to survive. The proposition's framing of global impacts and proxy wars means that they are taking them at their best. They make proxy wars worse because it is more escalatory. If you kill an American soldier, that is a declaration of war. We would say it is better to have necessary interventions at some point when inaction leads to the death of millions. We are proud to oppose.